---
title: "50 things I know"
description: "I recently read a few posts following this format, and I thought it was a marvelous way to reflect"
pubDate: "Jun 12 2026"
---

https://sashachapin.substack.com/p/50-things-i-know

In no particular order

1. I know that relationships require investment, and that this is true for family, friends, and even work. In this area, I have found it useful to think about investment through the lens of love languages; time, service, affirmation, gifts, and (appropriate) touch. 
2. I know that education does not prove intelligence, and that intelligence is hardly understood and often narrowly defined. Even more so, wisdom. 
3. I know that leadership does not need to be charismatic, loud, or powerful. However, an aspiring leader must contend with the fact that other leaders have some or all of those traits, and that many people evaluate leaders by them. 
4. I know that consistency of good habits is both the most impactful, and the most difficult, thing to build in one's life. And as James Clear writes in [Atomic Habits](https://jamesclear.com/atomic-habits), it doesn't even have to be big. 
5. I know that bad opinions are formed in a careless moment, and good opinions are formed over many intentional moments. Making a good first impression is often - and rightly - encouraged, but are ultimately not the basis for long relationships of any sort. 
6. I know that systems are necessary for any long-term impact. Anything less will only cause a temporary change in behavior of a person, team, organization, or even country. 
7. I know that people are inherently self-centered, and the reason it takes a village to raise a child is to help them become part of the village. The alternative is that every individual thinks themselves a god, which is inevitably an unrealistic expectation. 
8. I know that mentoring is one of the greatest gifts you can receive and give. It is essentially someone superior - in whatever arena they are mentoring you - offering you a relationship - access to their time, energy and thought - and it is one of the few activities which expands both parties involved.  
9. I know that it is possible to strongly desire an outcome, yet be powerless to make it manifest. This is true when dealing with many things larger than oneself; like widespread corruption. It is just as true when just dealing with yourself; like addictions. Faith and grace both exist in this gap. 
10. I know that 
11. I know that 
12. I know that 
13. I know that 
14. I know that 
15. I know that 
16. I know that 
17. I know that 
18. I know that 
19. I know that 
20. I know that 
21. I know that 
22. I know that 
23. I know that 
24. I know that 
25. I know that 
26. I know that 
27. I know that 
28. I know that 
29. I know that 
30. I know that 
31. I know that 
32. I know that 
33. I know that 
34. I know that 
35. I know that 
36. I know that 
37. I know that 
38. I know that 
39. I know that 
40. I know that 
41. I know that 
42. I know that 
43. I know that 
44. I know that 
45. I know that 
46. I know that 
47. I know that 
48. I know that 
49. I know that 
50. I know that 
