---
title: "Learning Flutter by improving an Open Source LLM Chatbot"
description: "I've been wanting to learn Flutter, so I decided to get started with a project"
pubDate: "November 9 2023"
heroImage: "/assets/blog/2023_11_09_Sherpa/SherpaAndroidEmulator.png"
draft: true
---

I've been saying I want to learn Flutter for years now, and so far my forays into it have been short and not entirely fruitful. So I enlisted some of my juniors at work to brainstorm some ideas for me to work on, and kind of figured out a roadmap for how I would learn Flutter through projects that I'm actually interested in building. 

The first project will inevitably be something not very novel, but that's exactly the point. I want to try working on something that others have already figured out, and just focus on a specific improvement to it. In this case, I found out that Llama.cpp runs on Android, but the open source repository that has achieved this has stopped development as a proof of concept. 

So, I figured, I can start with improving their UI. 

## Setting up the Flutter Project

Obviously, things were kind of out of date, so I had to run a couple of `dart fix --apply` and `dart pub upgrade` and `flutter pub upgrade` and so on before making any changes to configuration or code. And then once VS Code had stopped complaining about outdated packages or incompatibilities, it started complaining about signing. 

I had to [google this](https://blog.codemagic.io/the-simple-guide-to-android-code-signing/). I'm not very familiar with codesigning on anything other than MacOS, but the concepts were not too far off. Essentially I needed the [JRE](www.java.com) to get a `keytool` utility, with which I could generate a key using something like the following command:

`keytool -genkey -v -keystore PATH/key.jks -storetype JKS -keyalg RSA -keysize 2048 -validity 10000 -alias DEVELOPERNAME`

This prompts a couple times for some information, including a `keystore password` and a `key password`, which we'll refer to as `KEYSTOREPASS` and `KEYPASS` shortly. 

Then plug in the values into a `key.properties` file at the root of the `android` folder of my Flutter app (remember, Flutter is a cross-platform framework, so it has a folder in the root just for android), which looks something like this:


```
storePassword=KEYSTOREPASS
keyPassword=KEYPASS
keyAlias=DEVELOPERNAME
storeFile=PATH/key.jks
```

In this case, I also copied the `key.jks` into `android/app` for simplicity. 

NOTE: Both of these files should not be pushed to git (in case it wasn't obvious, that would be a security leak)

I also had to update the `android/app/build.gradle` configuration to change some key names so that it would match the names in `key.properties`, but that is for my own sanity. 

## Trying out Sherpa


